**NEW**: Download TermSuite Getting Start
[pdf version](http://ttc-project.googlecode.com/files/TermSuite-gettingstart.pdf)

# Getting Started #

It's not so complicated: you have to download text data before running Term Suite according its the 3 step design spotting terms, indexing terms and aligning terms.

### Downloading texts ###

I suggest you to download 2 comparable corpora about wind energy; for exemple the first in [English](http://www.lina.univ-nantes.fr/taln/maven/en-wind-energy.tgz) and the second in [French](http://www.lina.univ-nantes.fr/taln/maven/fr-wind-energy.tgz). Uncompress these archives wherever you want.

Launch TermSuite in a terminal window:

> java -Xms1g -Xmx2g -jar ttc-term-suite-1.4.jar

### Spotting terms ###

The first test step consists in running the Spotter both for English and French.

You have to set the parameter values as follows:
  * the _Language_ should be set to English (resp. French)
  * the _Input Directory_ should referred to the subdirectory English/txt/ (resp. French/txt/) where are the text files previously extracted from the above archives
  * the _Output Directory_ may be set to the subdirectory English/xmi/ (resp. French/xmi/) but you can set it as you want
  * the _TreeTagger Home Directory_ should be set to the directory where TreeTagger is installed (for example in /usr/local/share/tree-tagger)

Click the  **Save** button
Then just click the **Run** button

### Indexing terms ###

The second test step consists in running the Indexer both for English and French. So click the the left tab **Indexer** and set the parameter values as follows:
  * the _Language_ should be set to English (resp. French)
  * the _Input Directory_ should referred to the subdirectory English/xmi/ (resp. French/xmi/) where are the XMI files previously generated by the Spotter
  * the _Output Directory_ may be set to the directory English/ (resp. French/) but you can set it as you want;

Up to now, ignore the other parameters.

Click the  **Save** button
Then just click the **Run** button

The output directory will contain two files named en-terminology.xmi and en-terminology.tbx (resp. fr-terminology.xmi and fr-terminology.tbx).


### Aligning terms ###

You have to do 2 operations before aligning terms with Term Suite:
building a dictionary and building  term-to-be-translated files.

The translation will be from English to French.

#### Building term-to-be-translated files ####

Create a subdirectory  **En2Fr**  of the  **English** directory.
I suggest you to create 3 text files in the directory **En2Fr**:

The first one called _blade.txt_ will merely contain this line (source-term tabulation target-term):
```
blade	pale
```

The second one called _aerodynamic.txt_ will contain this line (source-term tabulation target-term):
```
aerodynamic	aérodynamique
```

The last one called _wind energy_ will contain this line (source-term tabulation target-term):
```
wind energy	énergie éolien
```

That's all!
Notice that terms are the lemma of the English and French terms.
The 3 files should be in UFT8.

#### Building dictionaries ####

Just create a text file called  _dico-en-fr.txt_ and fill it by these entries manually grabbed thanks to [Google Translate](http://translate.google.com/).
The format is source-term tabulation target-term in UTF8.
```
dynamic	dynamique
dynamic	énergique
dynamic	efficace
energy	énergie
energy	dynamisme
energy	vitalité
wind	vent
wind	souffle
wind	gaz
wind	tendance
wind	blague
wind	treuil
wind	coude
wind	éolien
```

Still alive! Congratulations, you're ready to find the translations of our  3 terms using our big bilingual dictionary!

#### Translating ####

Now, please click the the left tab **Aligner** and set the parameter values as follows:
  * the _Evaluation Input Output Translation Directory_ should referred to the En2Fr directory
  * the _Source Language_ should be set to English
  * the _Source Terminology File_ should referred to the xmi file English/en-terminology.xmi previously generated by the Indexer
  * the _Target Language_ should be set to French
  * the _Target Terminology File_ should referred to the xmi file French/fr-terminology.xmi previously generated by the Indexer
  * the _Dictionary File_ should referred to  _dico-en-fr.txt_
  * the _Aligner output directory_  should referred to the English directory

For the advanced settings:
  * choose _compositional method_
  * choose _distributional method_
  * _similarity distance class name_ select _Jaccard_
  * _Max translation candidates_  choose 50.

Click the  **Save** button
Then just click the **Run** button
Wait until the progression toolbar indicates 100% completed.

Choose the **View** panel.
Have a look of the right side of the window and you will see the 3 English terms you wanted to translate. Click on the directory button to view the translation candidates.

You will see that the translation of _aerodynamic_ is the first translation proposed, that there is no translation found for _blade_, and for _wind energy_, the expected translation is at the 49th position, but the first one is acceptable.

Enjoy! Go back to the TermSuite user guide and try to extract term variants with the indexer.