#summary getting started.
#labels Featured,Phase-Support

= Getting Started =

It's not so complicated: you have to download text data before running Term Suite according its the 3 step design spotting terms, indexing terms and aligning terms.

=== Downloading texts ===

I suggest you to download 2 comparable corpora about wind energy; for exemple the first in [http://www.lina.univ-nantes.fr/taln/maven/en-wind-energy.tgz English] and the second in [http://www.lina.univ-nantes.fr/taln/maven/fr-wind-energy.tgz French]. Please, uncompress these archives wherever you want.

=== Spotting terms ===

The first test step consists in running the Spotter both for English and French. You have to set the parameter values as follows:
 * the _Language_ should be set to English (resp. French)
 * the _Input Directory_ should referred to the subdirectory English/txt/ (resp. French/txt/) where are the text files previously extracted from the above archives
 * the _Output Directory_ may be set to the subdirectory English/xmi/ (resp. French/xmi/) but you can set it as you want
 * the _TreeTagger Home Directory_ should be set to the directory where TreeTagger is installed (for example in /usr/local/share/tree-tagger)

Then just click the button *Run*

=== Indexing terms ===

The second test step consists in running the Indexer both for English and French. So click the the left tab *Indexer* and set the parameter values as follows:
 * the _Language_ should be set to English (resp. French)
 * the _Input Directory_ should referred to the subdirectory English/xmi/ (resp. French/xmi/) where are the XMI files previously generated by the Spotter
 * the _Output Directory_ may be set to the directory English/ (resp. French/) but you can set it as you want; 

The output directory will contain two files named en-terminology.xmi and en-terminology.tbx (resp. fr-terminology.xmi and fr-terminology.tbx) after having process the Indexer by clicking on the button *Run*.

=== Aligning terms ===

You have to do 2 operations before aligning terms with Term Suite: 
building a dictionary and building  term-to-translate files.

Alignment will be here tested from English to French.

==== Building term-to-translate files ====

I suggest you to create 3 text files in a new directory: 

The first one called _blade.txt_ will merely contain this line:
{{{
blade	pale
}}}

The second one called _aerodynamic.txt_ will contain this line:
{{{
aerodynamic	aérodynamique
}}}

The last one called _wind energy_ will contain this line:
{{{
wind energy	énergie éolien
}}}

That's all!

Notice that terms are described within these files by their lemmas or their component lemmas if the case of complex terms.

==== Building dictionaries ====

Just create a text file called for instance _dico-en-fr.txt_ and fill it by these entries manually grabbed thanks to [http://translate.google.com/ Google Translate] but he last entry

{{{
dynamic	dynamique
dynamic	énergique
dynamic	efficace
energy	énergie
energy	dynamisme
energy	vitalité
wind	vent
wind	souffle
wind	gaz
wind	tendance
wind	blague
wind	treuil
wind	coude
wind	éolien
}}}

Still alive! Congratulations, you're ready to align the 3 terms-to-translate according to the dictionary.

==== Translating ====

Now, please click the the left tab *Aligner* and set the parameter values as follows:
 * the _Directory_ should referred to the directory where you have created the term-to-translate files
 * the _Source Language_ should be set to English
 * the _Source Terminology File_ should referred to the XMI file English/en-terminology.xmi previously generated by the Indexer
 * the _Target Language_ should be set to French
 * the _Target Terminology File_ should referred to the XMI file French/fr-terminology.xmi previously generated by the Indexer
 * the _Dictionary File_ should referred to your dictionary

Finally, just click the button *Run*.