#summary read me.
#labels Phase-Support

= ReadMe =

== Description ==

TermSuite is an UIMA application for monolingual and bilingual term extraction
from comparable corpora. 

Languages: English, French, German, Spanish, Latvian, Chinese and Russian.

Fp7 European project [http://www.ttc-project.eu/index.php TTC] _Terminology Extraction, Translation Tools and Comparable Corpora_. 


== Dependencies ==

TermSuite is powered by:
  * the Java programming language and runtime environment, 
  * the framework [http://uima.apache.org/ Apache UIMA], 
  * the part-of-speech tagger and lemmatizer [http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/corplex/TreeTagger/ TreeTagger],
  * the Java library [http://code.google.com/p/tt4j/ tt4j] for embedding TreeTagger in Java.

TermSuite requires that Java and TreeTagger are already installed on your computer.

TermSuite embeds The Apache UIMA and tt4j libraries as their licences make it possible. 

== Requirements ==

Please check that are installed on your computer: 
  * a Java 6 Runtime Environment ([http://www.java.com/fr/download/ Sun] or [http://openjdk.java.net/install/ OpenJDK]),
  * the part-of-speech tagger and lemmatizer [http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de/projekte/corplex/TreeTagger/ TreeTagger].

*Warning*: TermSuite expects to find TreeTagger's parameter files in the _lib/_ subdirectory of the TreeTagger home directory i.e. the folder where TreeTagger is installed on your computer. By default, these parameter files belong to the _lib/_ subdirectory. Please check that and create a link from  _models/_ to _lib/_ if necessary.

All linguistic resources (corpus, dictionary) should be encoded in UTF8 for all languages.

== Installation ==

- Download the [http://ttc-project.googlecode.com/files/ttc-term-suite-1.3.jar TTC Term Suite] executable Java archive

- Run it with the command line:

java -Xms1g -Xmx2g -jar ttc-term-suite-1.3.jar

- Have a look to the online documentation: Wiki/GettingStart and Wiki/userGuide

== Resources == 

- For Monolingual term extraction, Term Suite requires one corpus encoded in UTF8

- For bilingual term extraction, Term Suite requires encoded in UTF8
        * 2 corpora: one in source language and in target language;
        * 1 list of  source terms to translate;
        * a general language bilingual dictionary.

=== Corpora ===

A monolingual corpora is a set of text files that should be in one directory.
The corpora directory should not contain nay subdirectories nor other text files.

*Warning*: TermSuite is abble to treat corpora from 300,000 to 1 million tokens.
For corpora of size superior to 1 million, memory problems are encountered (UIMA memory handling).

=== Source terms to translate ===

The list of terms to translate is provided by text files in a directory: one file by term to translate that contains only the term to translate. Such file should look like as: term1.txt
{{{
  renewable energy
}}} 


Optionally, for evaluation purpose, you can provide one or more correct translations of the given term 
by separating the term and each translation by tabulations as below:
{{{
  énergie	energy	power
}}}


This can also be used as well for simple terms as for complex terms:
{{{
  énergie renouvelable	renewable energy
}}}

=== Dictionary ===

A tiny bilingual dictionary is used by default in Term Suite. 
However, you are strongly recommended to enrich it by your own dictionary. The latter should comply the following format: 
a source entry per line separated by a tabulation with 
In other words, dictionaries should look like that:
{{{
  ...
  énergie	energy
  énergie	power
  énergie	vigueur
  ...
  puissance	power
  ...
}}}